The next very exciting language
feature that has landed
in TypeScript recently is
much more than it seems.
Template literal types.
So you can think of these as sort of
the type equivalent to those backticks
strings that let us interpolate values
into string templates really easily and
the syntax is in fact the same.
So good news there.
Just remember when you're working
in value space versus type space,
are you on the left hand or
the right hand of the =?
So on it's surface it seems that we
can use this to create strengths.
So for example you can see here,
this here could be either median or
mean, and it's followed by value.
And we can in a nice,
concise way get both of these,
optional number properties.
We can get both of these on
this stats object instead
of having to type them one at a time.
So one advantage here is less
code to worry about another is
you could have a source of truth
that has this list of things.
And you can enforce with the type system,
a convention that
we have these value types like median,
mean, and mode.
Standard deviation,
you can have all of these and
then it always is followed
by the word value.
So you get this nice consistency because,
in this case, we're using this.
Anyone remember what this is called,
by the way?
The second line, there's a name for
this called a map type,
it's kind of like the type
version of a for loop.
Where we're iterating
over a list of keys and
defining the value that
can be found on each key.
So we're kind of almost like we're
looping over an array of these things,
and then we're transforming
them a little bit.
And then that's the value.
So it allows us to sort of build
things up in a very consistent way.
So, this is the most superficial
use of a template literal type,
but they can do so much more.
So here we're using this extract type,
which lets us take
a portion of a type right.
We would say, key of window.
So this would be a whole lot of strings.
Any function name, any property name,
like document will be in this list.
Window.document, right?
And then what we wanna
do is get the sub part
of that list that matches another type.
So in this case what we're saying
is give me a subset of the names
of everything on window that
begin with the word set.
And the key thing that we're able to
do here is we can put in any they're so
set followed by anything.
It's almost like a wildcard,
right, like set star.
So it's not just about assembling
a specific string using using a list of
prefixes or suffixes.
You can actually put a lot of
different things in here and
use these template literal types
in some very creative ways.
In fact you could, you could get
the first letter of a string literal
literal type by saying you know it's any.
Followed by another any or something.
And infer like extract out
the back half of the string.
You could split a CSV by
saying there's something,
something and give me that piece and
then followed by a comma.
Another way to think about this, if
you've ever written a regular expression,
you know how you can have these
capital groups where you'd say,
there's an email address give
me everything before the @.
So that is kind of what's happening here.
It's one possible use of this type.
So again,
more than it seems this is more than just
like a convenient way to build up strings.
With template literal types
we get three utilities that
frankly are only useful in
this kind of context, and
they're used to transform string case.
So we have a capitalized,
we have an uppercase, we have a lowercase.
It's a good thing that TypeScript
gave us these because there
is no way to express these
types using TypeScript code.
So if you go all the way down and to see
how do they internally define these types.
You'll see the word intrinsic there,
which just means it's like at
the compilers keyword for hand waving.
It's like don't worry about it.
We got this handled in
the compiler somewhere,
like we do something special
every time we see capitalized.
This is unlike some of the other
utility types where if you drill in and
you're like, how does this thing work?
You can see it's built using TypeScript,
these.
It's there's just no way to do it.
So it's good that they gave it to us.
But you can see here, we could build
a nice little event API, where we can try.
We can have these keyboard and
mouse events.
And we can either capitalize,
which of course,
makes the first letter capitalized,
or this is all uppercase.
And this is all lowercase.
And you can see here I've added some
things to lowercase in that last example.
So we're about to dig into a challenge and
get hands on with this.
You will need to use these
three types in order to create
a nice semantic API based
on some names and things.
A complimentary feature two template
literal types is key remapping.
So again, remember that a mapped type
which is anytime you see sort of K in or
you can use whatever letter you want here.
But it's sort of like a four of loop.
Think of it that way.
So it's like for each key in
a list of keys that's our loop.
Well, this syntax here is the new piece.
This is the new thing that
landed in TypeScript 4.2 and
that is allowing us to remap.
So you can see here we have red,
green and blue.
Those are our colors that effectively
is what we're iterating over.
So K is gonna be first red,
and then green, and then blue.
And what we can do is transform that key.
And we could say, I want this to be select
and then capitalize the r in red and
that's how we ended up
with select red down here.
This was in theory, possible in some way.
In older versions of TypeScript but you
would have needed to have some explicit
let's say listing of a mapping between
like red and select red and blue and
select blue.
You would have had to write
that in your code and
you would have gotten some
help from the type checking.
That would have enforced that you have
an entry where you must have an entry.
But this is a lot cleaner and it saves you
from having to have all these intermediate
types where it's sort of extra
backflips that you have to do.